Let's talk about test doubles here.
I'll give an overview.
Let's start by talking about a few types of unit tests.
This is a very broad and abstract way to look at your unit testing.
I'm going to read it here.
A unit test can be considered to be either solitary, where the system under test has no dependencies,
or sociable where the system under test does indeed have dependencies.
Something solitary is a bit more pure if you remember the pure functions lesson, whereas something
is sociable is more impure.
Let's take a look at that.
In this diagram here, imagine we have some production code and we want to put some solitary unit tests
on them now because solitary does not have dependencies.
Notice that our first test goes directly to one and only one class within the production code.
And we have another solitary test that tests something just on another particular class.
That would be more of the solitary approach, more of the pure approach.
Now let's compare that to a sociable unit test that we see below.
A sociable test might test a system that in itself depends on 1 or 2 other systems.
So here we're testing something a bit higher level, but recognizing that that's going to be dependent
on some other systems there.
So it has some dependencies.
Now just going to give some $0.02 here.
It's a little bit of an opinion.
If you do sociable testing you may end up having fewer tests.
But those tests are testing higher level concepts with more assumptions and dependencies.
Whereas if we do solitary unit tests, you might have a higher volume of tests because you're testing
more individual systems.
Probably if you're shooting for having more solitary tests as well, you would end up doing more refactoring,
because probably our production code is based by default.
As unity developers, I think on more dependencies, more inter operations of systems.
So if you start moving from sociable tests, which probably are easier to do on your existing code base
and you want to move towards solitary tests, you may be doing some refactoring on your systems so they
operate more independently.
Now let's talk about what test doubles are.
So a test double is an object that can stand in for any real object.
This can help increase the unit testings purity, making it more solitary.
As our image here hints, a test double is something like a twin for an existing production class.
And how similar are those two twins?
Well, it very much depends on which type of test double we're implementing.
There's a whole range.
Now I'll go through this table.
Here's some of the types of test doubles.
Generally speaking, at the top of this list is a more dumb object that does less things, and at the
bottom is a more complete object that does more things.
Depending on the test at hand that you're talking about, you may find that one of these, any one of
them, is the best solution.
The goal is not necessarily to always try for mock or to try for fake.
They each have a role here, and depending on what you're doing, you may find some value.
So a dummy is passing in a null value, or a dumb object that does little or nothing.
And this is used for compilation, but it's never actually called.
So imagine you have a class that needs to have something in the constructor, and then you want to call
a method on that class for the test.
As long as the method you're calling doesn't really depend on whatever you've passed in the constructor,
it would be okay that you pass a null value or whatever the minimum you need for the compilation is.
You could think about this as putting just enough in to make it compile, and then testing the parts
that still work.
This one has the lowest power or influence over the test.
Effectively it has none.
Next, there's the idea of stubbing.
Stubbing in general in life is to put something temporary in that serves just enough of the purpose.
That's where this term stub comes from.
So here we're providing fake data to the system under test.
This is for compilation like the dummy.
But it is also related to what you're actually calling and testing.
But the idea again is to put the minimum amount in and be able to get the results that you want.
And just bringing this back to the concepts of solitary testing.
If your system has a dependency on a second system and you want to test it, you could insert a dummy
or a stub for that second system.
That way, your primary system still expects and gets what it needs, but you're not necessarily putting
the hard coded production code in for that second dependency.
And we'll see this in the coding examples.
Next one down is a spy.
So a spy records how the system under test is being used.
So here you're testing if a particular method is called in return something something with a bit more
power and influence over the testing.
Continuing here is mocking values.
So here you're defining the system under test and what it returns.
So this has a higher power.
And this is defining not just if a method returns but what it returns.
And finally baking is when you add full non-production implementation and you have full control to do
whatever it is that you need.
So you can see here in brief that you've got a menu selection of kind of lower powered, quicker, cheaper
options at the top and higher powered, more powerful stuff there at the end.
So here is a code snippet that is from earlier in this same lesson sections.
And we're seeing that we're passing in when we create this instance of the my system too, we're creating
the constructor and we're passing in a multiplier value.
Then when we call the convert value, imagine we're doing a unit test on the convert value.
We have that indirect input because the convert value depends not just on the argument of value that
we're passing in, but on something else.
And we would consider this to be non pure or impure.
And it's not necessarily a problem.
But we recognize that this isn't as deterministic as it could be.
It also has a dependency on that multiplier value.
Now, you could certainly unit test this as is.
And when we look at the code, we'll see that we can do just that.
We could operate a standard test right on top of this.
But let's consider what type of refactoring we could do here.
So here's a new class meant to improve upon what we've just seen.
Now here I am indeed passing in something into the constructor, but instead I'm passing in not just
one value, but an interface that holds that value.
Now, this is a very simple example.
Doesn't necessarily solve all of the challenges, but in this small baby step, as we're learning more,
we'll learn why that an interface is more helpful here.
Again down here in the convert value we're going to use that converter class.
We're passing off some of the responsibility there in ways we're introducing a bit more of indirect
functionality a bit more dependency.
But we're going to again see that because it's an interface, we're going to be able to play with something
here using one of the libraries available to us.
So let's see how that could help us.
So here in the green we're going to be using a library that will help us create some of the test doubles
in this case.
Well what kind of test double are we creating.
Well the language of the end substitute library that we're using.
And that end substitute dependency is included in the sample project for you.
And we'll look at it in the sample code.
What end substitute can do for us is substitute dot for and we can create a new test double based on
the I converter.
Then here in green in the world of the test, without affecting any production code, we're able to
define exactly what the converter test double should do for us.
So because right here in green, we can completely control and simulate the behavior that we want.
We're reducing dependencies on production code.
We're moving the dependency right here to test only code.
And that's very useful.
The more you would embrace these kinds of concepts where your production code is flexible enough.
In this case, flexible enough means interfaces.
But there's other ways we could sell that.
Having it be flexible enough so that our tests can simulate mock fake stub, more of what we need,
the better.
Then what we do is we pass the converter in.
So comparing to the earlier example, we're not passing in the multiplier value of 20.
We're passing in a mock simulated stubbed test double that we can more intimately control here.
So now that we know in the second line here it says converter convert convert value.
There's a particular language.
It looks a little odd if you're not familiar to it, but I include links to the documentation for this.
What we're saying is if we call convert value and we pass in any argument of type int, which is what
it needs, it is always going to return value times multiplier.
Effectively.
We're like hot wiring in the result.
We expect the implementation we expect without having to go create our own test classes.
Dummy classes, fake classes I think is the better word.
And then down here in the blue we call the same old system dot convert value.
Now looking at this between the green and the blue, we can see enough that we can make the assumption
that our result will equal 30 because all the implementation is right here.
So the blue is really testing a minimal amount of functionality.
You could even argue it's testing no functionality on the system itself.
But again, we're playing with this and a purposely simple example showing a mock.
If the convert value was doing quite a bit more, we would be able to influence part, but not all of
its implementation by using what's shown in the green here.
But remember here we're playing with the idea of moving between the pure and the impure, and between
solitary and sociable tests, and the benefit of being able to look at these libraries that help us
do test doubles is that we can do more within our unit tests without necessarily having to refactor
our production code.
But I think as you use test driven development and also unit testing in general, testing your existing
production code and being open to refactor your production code if and when it's necessary.
These are great tools that you can use along that ride, so you can see that by reducing the complexity
and dependencies in your production code, we get more unit testable code.
But even if you did not do that, we have some libraries here that can help us do better types of test
doubling.
So that gives us some more options.